So let's continue working on our connection between front and back end.
And let's now focus on adding places.
That's something which is missing right now which of course should work too.
So in the front and under Places Pages new place.
Yes of course I want to send the request here into place.
Submit handler instead of console logging this here.
Now that shouldn't be too hard.
We can import our custom hook so we import use HP Client from a shared folder to hooks folder.
The HP hook file and then justice before execute does here in this new place component use object restructuring
to get the interesting pieces out of it like is loading our or a sand request.
And of course clear error.
And now we can use all of that here.
So for example here once we submit it the place I want to send my request of course to you are L Here
is HP local hosted 5000 slash API slash places and then let's check our backend here.
Other places routes we see for creating a new place.
It's really just slash.
Nothing there after it is a post request as we just saw in the back end.
And for the data which is attached it has to be Jason data here sold string of fighters and pass on
the object which needs to have a title needs to have a description needs to have an address and all
important on the places controller in the create place function.
We see we also try to extract the creator so the I.D. of the user who is responsible for this place.
So we should provide all that information here
title of course here is from state inputs dot title dot value because on this form we are managing title
description and address so we can all the copy does to also pass on the description from form state
inputs description entered here the address from form state inputs address.
Now for the creator we have a problem at the moment we're not really managing the user I.D. here on
the front and in a central place now with the help of our off context we could actually do that.
We're currently just managing is logged in here.
We could also manage a user I.D. here which initially let's say is NULL which we then want to send once
a user is locked in.
So here in the app yes where we do manage to data for our off context we could manage user I.D. as a
new state and set user I.D. here on log in on this log in function we could expect the user I.D. to
use ideas argument and then call set user I.D. here and set it to that user I.D..
And when we log out we reset it and said user I.D. back to now and then we feed dead user I.D. back
into our context.
So down there where we set the value we now also set user I.D. and we set that to the user I.D. state
we're managing here.
Now actually we could Wired is all up and go to the off page and there when we call log in we want to
forward that I.D. we get back.
So here from send request we do actually get back response data both for logging in and for a signing
up.
And if we have a brief look at the back end again we see the data which we do get back there in sign
up for example is our created user here and the same for logging in there we also in the end can return
our user at the moment I'm just returning a message here but I can return existing user Queue object
getters true here
and map that to a user property.
With this we return to user data as well.
And on that user object we of course can get the I.D. so we can it on the back end and on the front
end to respond state and now has to I.D. so on response data we can now access a certain key and for
that let's go back to the back and really quick again for logging in.
It's the user key which holds our user for signing up it's the same.
So we access dot user here dot I.D. and that should be our user I.D. we can do that both for signing
up and for logging in.
And now we should actually manage that idea globally in our front end and now back on NEW PLACE creator
is actually the idea of the user which we can now get from our off context.
So there we just need to import used context from react and import auth context from this file here
so import of context from shared context of context and then in here is simply get access to this by
using our off context.
This sets up a listener to our context here in the new place component.
And on this off object we can now retrieve the user I.D. That's the idea at least.
So here we can point that off user I.D. and attach this to the outgoing request as well.
Now let's add async in front of this function here so that here we can use a wait.
So do we know once this is done I also want to wrap this with try catch so that we can continue differently
in a success case than we do in the error case.
So here in the error case I don't need to do anything actually because we set the error state instead
of our hook.
But in the success case I later want to redirect the user to a different page.
We can do this as a next step though for the moment let's instead take advantage of is loading and error
and clear error.
And for that I will again import components we used before the error or modal from shared components
you are UI elements error or modal and also import the loading spinner from shared components UI elements
loading spinner.
And now we can use that here if we scroll down to our J is X code and for 1 Wrap the form with react
fragment so that we can have multiple top level J as X elements here because next to the form I want
to add my error or modal here and forward a potential error we might be having and on clear on the other
hand Justice before should point at the clear error function and for the loading state inside of the
form I will check if we are loading and if we are loading I want to render the loading spinner in that
as overlay mode which I set by adding this prop for now safeties let's give it a try let's go back here
and log in real quick.
That hopefully sets our user I.D. and I now go to ad place and add a place here like the Marine plots
a great place in Munich and the address is Marine plots one in Munich let's say a click ad place I get
an error Invalid inputs Pass please check your data.
OK let's check the outgoing request and the network tab there does read request is the one which failed
and let's see what did we attach a stay the I did attach all my data here including the creators so
that's looking good we got dead user ideas it seems and still I get back invalid inputs past please
check your data so something was not liked about that data which I attached here and yep I know what
the problem is it can be difficult to spot this issue though when I sent the request here in New Place
I do add to your l the method and the body what am I not setting here the headers and I said we would
need to add the content type header and set it to application Jason otherwise the body parts are on
the back and would not be able to parse that and correctly data for the back end would not find the
appropriate data.
So now with that added here with this header added on the front then let's try this again let's log
in again create a place here the Marine plots right place in Munich and at this address and click Add
place and now at least we get a different error it fails but with a different error the message is creating
place failed.
Please try again it's a five hundred status code so not a validation error and this area now has a very
tricky error source.
Keep in mind that on the back end we're working with transactions here.
Right.
And if you're working with transactions this on the fly collection creation which normally works won't
work.
So you need to make sure that you first of all create a new place this collection here in your database
before this operation can succeed.
This is of course just a one time task you only do this when you set up your application for the first
time with the place's collection added here if we now click Add place this should succeed and this is
looking pretty good to me.
We get back a success status code we're not redirected because we have no logic for that but we do get
the right status code and if we now inspect our places collection year we should see our new place here
we see it points at a user who ends with 1 5 is 7 and if we have a look at our users we see that's this
first user and there if we have a look at the places array we see that idea of the place we just added
which ends with 0 5 6 1 6 that's this place so storing places works now on the front and I just want
to make sure that if we do succeed.
So here instead of this comment we really do redirect and that's easy to do.
We can import something from react ruder Dom and that's the use history hook from.
React or dom.
So it's a custom hook provided by this package you could say and it's very easy to use.
You just executed let's say here after our custom hooks we call you as history and this gives you a
so-called history object which you can store in a constant a constant.
I will here name history.
The name is up to you and you can then use this to redirect because it is history object has a push
and a replace method for example which allows you to go to a new page by adding it on the stack or by
replacing the current page.
And here I want to allow the user to go back after the navigation cycle push and I will push to user
to slash nothing so to the starting page with that if we save all of that and we create a no place here
in our application we first of only to log in later we will ensure that users stay locked in for the
moment we'll have to re log in and then I will add a new place here.
Empire State Building and amazing skyscraper and here I search for Empire State Building in New York.
Let's see where that works if I click ad place.
This seems to work and we are redirected as you can clearly tell.
And now just to double check if we reload this page here in the collections screen we should now see
two documents and one of them is the Empire State Building with the automatically fetched location and
so on and our a user with whom I logged in should now have two places at whom it points.
So this is working.
And with that let's ensure that now that we can add places we can all to fetch them on a per user basis
if I click on a user.
And don't worry that they're all looking the same here.
Later we will add a functionality to upload your own profile picture.
So for now let's make sure and when I click on Max here I do actually fetch the actual places off that
user of course that is something you can try on your own first before we then do it together in the
next Deckchair.